Add The Sound Design of osu!(lazer) newspost (#7678)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-31-07-osulazer-audio-design.md

---
layout: post
title: "sound design of osu!lazer"
date: 2022-07-31 00:00:00 +0000
needs_cleanup: true
---

![](/wiki/shared/news/2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design/header.png)

Recently I've been very fascinated with the sound design of osu!lazer, so much so that I decided to deep dive it and do a write-up about it!

> Sound design is an integral part to how for example, a person experiences opening a can of Coca-Cola or how a car engine sounds, both in real life and in video games. So when I played osu!lazer I was interested if all the UI effects were made from scratch for lazer, and this took me down a rabbit hole. I ended up speaking with nekodex, the person behind the sound design aspect of osu!lazer and wanted to share my findings with you all. 

Reviewer: quick example of how to write without using "i" or "we" etc. (and a few other changes)

(response to [message on discord](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/999717945255153735))

it doesn't have to be too dry so using "you" in a few places is ok too

```suggestion
Sound design relates to how any particular sound can make its listener *feel*. The sound itself can be anything from the pop and fizz when opening a can of Coca-Cola, to the rumble of a car engine. In video games, sounds need to match the things players interact with, so for osu! the question is: "What sounds should things like a circle, button, or a toggle have?"

osu!'s new client intends to answer that question with lots of brand new changes, including brand new sound effects to suit the brand new UI. If you are wondering where they come from or how they are made, read along for an interview with [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102), the person behind the sound design of osu!(lazer).
```

Author: Thanks, I will take this and re-write the doc to better suit the criteria

And I agree, simple really is best!
It is amazing what nekodex is doing considering he has no prior experience whatsoever, every single tick, click, hover is extremely satisfying and I believe peppy definitely chose the right person for this. Next time you boot osu!lazer up I highly recommend just turning the music all the way down and just play with the buttons and hear all of the amazing work nekodex did yourself! To be honest, I kind of feel bad for not showcasing more of these effects, so how about I just drop some more effects below? In fact, let's make a little game out of it!
Here’s a bit of trivia for you all, can you spot what these sounds are being for?

**The first 3 comments that have guessed all of the below correctly will receive a month of supporter!**

<audio controls>
  <source src="wiki\shared\news\2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design\trivia-1.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

<audio controls>
    <source src="wiki\shared\news\2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design\trivia-2.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

<audio controls>
    <source src="wiki\shared\news\2022-07-31-lazer-sound-design\trivia-3.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

---

> If you want to give osu!lazer a try and listen in to all the different sounds, you can download the game for free [here](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases)! osu!lazer is actively being worked on by peppy and many other individuals who contribute their time and knowledge over on Github, so if you have any suggestions or want to help yourself feel free to browse around the Github and even partake in development! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to give osu!lazer a try and listen in to all the different sounds, you can download the game for free [here](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases)! osu!lazer is actively being worked on by peppy and many other individuals who contribute their time and knowledge over on Github, so if you have any suggestions or want to help yourself feel free to browse around the Github and even partake in development [here](https://discord.gg/ppy)! 
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe just add the link of the discord :o

osu!'s new client intends to answer that question with lots of brand new changes, including brand new sound effects to suit the brand new UI. If you are wondering where they come from or how they are made, read along for an interview with [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102), the person behind the sound design of osu!(lazer).

Jamie Taylor is a full-stack engineer born in Australia that joined the osu!team as a web developer in 2015 after peppy asked if he was interested in helping rebuild the osu! website. Jamie has been with the team ever since, working on various osu! related things such as the review system for beatmap modding, the chat system etc., but today he describes himself as a hybrid audio designer/developer and does is not involved as much in the web side of things. Today we will look at Jamie's alias, nekodex, how he developed as an artist and focus on the work he's done with osu!, more specifically, osu!(lazer)'s sound design.

> Nekodex as an alias came to be in 2012, as Jamie had musical background while growing up, played with early music software, learned from YouTube tutorials and eventually started messing around in DAW's (digital audio workstations) until music came out. As Jamie was getting serious with music production peppy was preparing osu!stream (an iOS spinoff of osu! that was created in 2010) for the public view, which required original music for the game. As peppy and Jamie are real life friends and peppy knew about his music he got the chance to create some themes and tracks for osu!stream and later on got some of his own songs mapped for osu!stream as well.

Reviewer: > Today we will look at Jamie's alias, nekodex

there's nothing here about nekodex's name other than the date.. am i missing something?

Author: I agree with this, I have reached out once more to nekodex to beef this section up

Author: nekodex performed his review and proposed that the alias part is ditched which I did, so resolving this

---
layout: post
title: "sound design of osu!(lazer)"
date: 2022-07-31 00:00:00 +0000

> needs_cleanup: true

Reviewer 3: this only makes sense for existing articles, not newsposts, as it implies the contents are going to be rewritten later on

Author: Removed, thanks
